README.md, before:

<p align="center">
<img src="/src/frontend/static/icons/Hipster_HeroLogoMaroon.svg" width="300" alt="Online Boutique" />
</p>

![Continuous Integration](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/microservices-demo/workflows/Continuous%20Integration%20-%20Main/Release/badge.svg)

**Online Boutique** is a cloud-first microservices demo application.
Online Boutique consists of an 11-tier microservices application. The application is a
web-based e-commerce app where users can browse items,
add them to the cart, and purchase them.

Google uses this application to demonstrate the use of technologies like
Kubernetes, GKE, Istio, Stackdriver, and gRPC. This application
works on any Kubernetes cluster, like Google
Kubernetes Engine (GKE). It’s **easy to deploy with little to no configuration**.

If you’re using this demo, please **★Star** this repository to show your interest!

**Note to Googlers (Google employees):** Please fill out the form at [go/microservices-demo](http://go/microservices-demo).

## Screenshots

| Home Page                                                                                                         | Checkout Screen                                                                                                    |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [![Screenshot of store homepage](/docs/img/online-boutique-frontend-1.png)](/docs/img/online-boutique-frontend-1.png) | [![Screenshot of checkout screen](/docs/img/online-boutique-frontend-2.png)](/docs/img/online-boutique-frontend-2.png) |

## Interactive quickstart (GKE)

[![Open in Cloud Shell](https://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://ssh.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2Fmicroservices-demo&shellonly=true&cloudshell_image=gcr.io/ds-artifacts-cloudshell/deploystack_custom_image)

## Quickstart (GKE)

1. Ensure you have the following requirements:
   - [Google Cloud project](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/creating-managing-projects#creating_a_project).
   - Shell environment with `gcloud`, `git`, and `kubectl`.

2. Clone the repository.

   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/microservices-demo
   cd microservices-demo/
   ```

3. Set the Google Cloud project and region and ensure the Google Kubernetes Engine API is enabled.

   ```sh
   export PROJECT_ID=<PROJECT_ID>
   export REGION=us-central1
   gcloud services enable container.googleapis.com \
     --project=${PROJECT_ID}
   ```

   Substitute `<PROJECT_ID>` with the ID of your Google Cloud project.

4. Create a GKE cluster and get the credentials for it.

   ```sh
   gcloud container clusters create-auto online-boutique \
     --project=${PROJECT_ID} --region=${REGION}
   ```

   Creating the cluster may take a few minutes.

5. Deploy Online Boutique to the cluster.

   ```sh
   kubectl apply -f ./release/kubernetes-manifests.yaml
   ```

6. Wait for the pods to be ready.

   ```sh
   kubectl get pods
   ```

   After a few minutes, you should see the Pods in a `Running` state:

   ```
   NAME                                     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
   adservice-76bdd69666-ckc5j               1/1     Running   0          2m58s
   cartservice-66d497c6b7-dp5jr             1/1     Running   0          2m59s
   checkoutservice-666c784bd6-4jd22         1/1     Running   0          3m1s
   currencyservice-5d5d496984-4jmd7         1/1     Running   0          2m59s
   emailservice-667457d9d6-75jcq            1/1     Running   0          3m2s
   frontend-6b8d69b9fb-wjqdg                1/1     Running   0          3m1s
   loadgenerator-665b5cd444-gwqdq           1/1     Running   0          3m
   paymentservice-68596d6dd6-bf6bv          1/1     Running   0          3m
   productcatalogservice-557d474574-888kr   1/1     Running   0          3m
   recommendationservice-69c56b74d4-7z8r5   1/1     Running   0          3m1s
   redis-cart-5f59546cdd-5jnqf              1/1     Running   0          2m58s
   shippingservice-6ccc89f8fd-v686r         1/1     Running   0          2m58s
   ```

7. Access the web frontend in a browser using the frontend's external IP.

   ```sh
   kubectl get service frontend-external | awk '{print $4}'
   ```

   Visit `http://EXTERNAL_IP` in a web browser to access your instance of Online Boutique.

8. Once you are done with it, delete the GKE cluster.

   ```sh
   gcloud container clusters delete online-boutique \
     --project=${PROJECT_ID} --region=${REGION}
   ```

   Deleting the cluster may take a few minutes.

## Use Terraform to provision a GKE cluster and deploy Online Boutique

The [`/terraform` folder](/terraform) contains instructions for using [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/intro) to replicate the steps from [**Quickstart (GKE)**](#quickstart-gke) above.

## Other deployment variations

- **Istio/Anthos Service Mesh**: [See these instructions.](/kustomize/components/service-mesh-istio/README.md)
- **non-GKE clusters (Minikube, Kind)**: see the [Development Guide](/docs/development-guide.md)

## Deploy Online Boutique variations with Kustomize

The [`/kustomize` folder](/kustomize) contains instructions for customizing the deployment of Online Boutique with different variations such as:
* integrating with [Google Cloud Operations](/kustomize/components/google-cloud-operations/)
* replacing the in-cluster Redis cache with [Google Cloud Memorystore (Redis)](/kustomize/components/memorystore), [AlloyDB](/kustomize/components/alloydb) or [Google Cloud Spanner](/kustomize/components/spanner)
* etc.

## Architecture

**Online Boutique** is composed of 11 microservices written in different
languages that talk to each other over gRPC.

[![Architecture of
microservices](/docs/img/architecture-diagram.png)](/docs/img/architecture-diagram.png)

Find **Protocol Buffers Descriptions** at the [`./protos` directory](/protos).

| Service                                              | Language      | Description                                                                                                                       |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [frontend](/src/frontend)                           | Go            | Exposes an HTTP server to serve the website. Does not require signup/login and generates session IDs for all users automatically. |
| [cartservice](/src/cartservice)                     | C#            | Stores the items in the user's shopping cart in Redis and retrieves it.                                                           |
| [productcatalogservice](/src/productcatalogservice) | Go            | Provides the list of products from a JSON file and ability to search products and get individual products.                        |
| [currencyservice](/src/currencyservice)             | Node.js       | Converts one money amount to another currency. Uses real values fetched from European Central Bank. It's the highest QPS service. |
| [paymentservice](/src/paymentservice)               | Node.js       | Charges the given credit card info (mock) with the given amount and returns a transaction ID.                                     |
| [shippingservice](/src/shippingservice)             | Go            | Gives shipping cost estimates based on the shopping cart. Ships items to the given address (mock)                                 |
| [emailservice](/src/emailservice)                   | Python        | Sends users an order confirmation email (mock).                                                                                   |
| [checkoutservice](/src/checkoutservice)             | Go            | Retrieves user cart, prepares order and orchestrates the payment, shipping and the email notification.                            |
| [recommendationservice](/src/recommendationservice) | Python        | Recommends other products based on what's given in the cart.                                                                      |
| [adservice](/src/adservice)                         | Java          | Provides text ads based on given context words.                                                                                   |
| [loadgenerator](/src/loadgenerator)                 | Python/Locust | Continuously sends requests imitating realistic user shopping flows to the frontend.                                              |

## Features

- **[Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io)/[GKE](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/):**
  The app is designed to run on Kubernetes (both locally on "Docker for
  Desktop", as well as on the cloud with GKE).
- **[gRPC](https://grpc.io):** Microservices use a high volume of gRPC calls to
  communicate to each other.
- **[Istio](https://istio.io):** Application works on Istio service mesh.
- **[Cloud Operations (Stackdriver)](https://cloud.google.com/products/operations):** Many services
  are instrumented with **Profiling** and **Tracing**. In
  addition to these, using Istio enables features like Request/Response
  **Metrics** and **Context Graph** out of the box. When it is running out of
  Google Cloud, this code path remains inactive.
- **[Skaffold](https://skaffold.dev):** Application
  is deployed to Kubernetes with a single command using Skaffold.
- **Synthetic Load Generation:** The application demo comes with a background
  job that creates realistic usage patterns on the website using
  [Locust](https://locust.io/) load generator.

## Development

See the [Development guide](/docs/development-guide.md) to learn how to run and develop this app locally.

## Demos featuring Online Boutique

- [Use Azure Redis Cache with the Online Boutique sample on AKS](https://medium.com/p/981bd98b53f8)
- [Sail Sharp, 8 tips to optimize and secure your .NET containers for Kubernetes](https://medium.com/p/c68ba253844a)
- [Deploy multi-region application with Anthos and Google cloud Spanner](https://medium.com/google-cloud/a2ea3493ed0)
- [Use Google Cloud Memorystore (Redis) with the Online Boutique sample on GKE](https://medium.com/p/82f7879a900d)
- [Use Helm to simplify the deployment of Online Boutique, with a Service Mesh, GitOps, and more!](https://medium.com/p/246119e46d53)
- [How to reduce microservices complexity with Apigee and Anthos Service Mesh](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/application-modernization/api-management-and-service-mesh-go-together)
- [gRPC health probes with Kubernetes 1.24+](https://medium.com/p/b5bd26253a4c)
- [Use Google Cloud Spanner with the Online Boutique sample](https://medium.com/p/f7248e077339)
- [Seamlessly encrypt traffic from any apps in your Mesh to Memorystore (redis)](https://medium.com/google-cloud/64b71969318d)
- [Strengthen your app's security with Anthos Service Mesh and Anthos Config Management](https://cloud.google.com/service-mesh/docs/strengthen-app-security)
- [From edge to mesh: Exposing service mesh applications through GKE Ingress](https://cloud.google.com/architecture/exposing-service-mesh-apps-through-gke-ingress)
- [Take the first step toward SRE with Cloud Operations Sandbox](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/operations/on-the-road-to-sre-with-cloud-operations-sandbox)
- [Deploying the Online Boutique sample application on Anthos Service Mesh](https://cloud.google.com/service-mesh/docs/onlineboutique-install-kpt)
- [Anthos Service Mesh Workshop: Lab Guide](https://codelabs.developers.google.com/codelabs/anthos-service-mesh-workshop)
- [KubeCon EU 2019 - Reinventing Networking: A Deep Dive into Istio's Multicluster Gateways - Steve Dake, Independent](https://youtu.be/-t2BfT59zJA?t=982)
- Google Cloud Next'18 SF
  - [Day 1 Keynote](https://youtu.be/vJ9OaAqfxo4?t=2416) showing GKE On-Prem
  - [Day 3 Keynote](https://youtu.be/JQPOPV_VH5w?t=815) showing Stackdriver
    APM (Tracing, Code Search, Profiler, Google Cloud Build)
  - [Introduction to Service Management with Istio](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wCJrdKdD6UM&feature=youtu.be&t=586)
- [Google Cloud Next'18 London – Keynote](https://youtu.be/nIq2pkNcfEI?t=3071)
  showing Stackdriver Incident Response Management

---

This is not an official Google project.

Commit message:

add doc for docker compose

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
<img src="/src/frontend/static/icons/Hipster_HeroLogoMaroon.svg" width="300" alt="Online Boutique" />
</p>

![Continuous Integration](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/microservices-demo/workflows/Continuous%20Integration%20-%20Main/Release/badge.svg)

**Online Boutique** is a cloud-first microservices demo application.
Online Boutique consists of an 11-tier microservices application. The application is a
web-based e-commerce app where users can browse items,
add them to the cart, and purchase them.

Google uses this application to demonstrate the use of technologies like
Kubernetes, GKE, Istio, Stackdriver, and gRPC. This application
works on any Kubernetes cluster, like Google
Kubernetes Engine (GKE). It’s **easy to deploy with little to no configuration**.

If you’re using this demo, please **★Star** this repository to show your interest!

**Note to Googlers (Google employees):** Please fill out the form at [go/microservices-demo](http://go/microservices-demo).

## Screenshots

| Home Page                                                                                                         | Checkout Screen                                                                                                    |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [![Screenshot of store homepage](/docs/img/online-boutique-frontend-1.png)](/docs/img/online-boutique-frontend-1.png) | [![Screenshot of checkout screen](/docs/img/online-boutique-frontend-2.png)](/docs/img/online-boutique-frontend-2.png) |

## Running with Docker Compose

For those who want to quickly run the Online Boutique application without setting up a Kubernetes cluster, Docker Compose offers a way to define and run multi-container applications. Follow these steps to run the Online Boutique using Docker Compose:

### Prerequisites

1. Ensure you have Docker and Docker Compose installed:
   - [Docker installation guide](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
   - [Docker Compose installation guide](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

### Steps to Run

1. Clone the repository if you haven't already.

   ```sh
   git clone --single-branch --branch abdi/feat/compose https://github.com/a36069/microservices-demo.git
   cd microservices-demo/
2. R‍un the Docker Compose command:

   ```sh
   ‍docker-compose up 
Once all services have started, you can access the Online Boutique web frontend at http://localhost:8080 or the port specified in the docker-compose.yml for the frontend service.

### Shutting Down
To stop the running containers and remove the created network:

    docker-compose down

## Interactive quickstart (GKE)

[![Open in Cloud Shell](https://gstatic.com/cloudssh/images/open-btn.svg)](https://ssh.cloud.google.com/cloudshell/editor?cloudshell_git_repo=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FGoogleCloudPlatform%2Fmicroservices-demo&shellonly=true&cloudshell_image=gcr.io/ds-artifacts-cloudshell/deploystack_custom_image)

## Quickstart (GKE)

1. Ensure you have the following requirements:
   - [Google Cloud project](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/creating-managing-projects#creating_a_project).
   - Shell environment with `gcloud`, `git`, and `kubectl`.

2. Clone the repository.

   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/microservices-demo
   cd microservices-demo/
   ```

3. Set the Google Cloud project and region and ensure the Google Kubernetes Engine API is enabled.

   ```sh
   export PROJECT_ID=<PROJECT_ID>
   export REGION=us-central1
   gcloud services enable container.googleapis.com \
     --project=${PROJECT_ID}
   ```

   Substitute `<PROJECT_ID>` with the ID of your Google Cloud project.

4. Create a GKE cluster and get the credentials for it.

   ```sh
   gcloud container clusters create-auto online-boutique \
     --project=${PROJECT_ID} --region=${REGION}
   ```

   Creating the cluster may take a few minutes.

5. Deploy Online Boutique to the cluster.

   ```sh
   kubectl apply -f ./release/kubernetes-manifests.yaml
   ```

6. Wait for the pods to be ready.

   ```sh
   kubectl get pods
   ```

   After a few minutes, you should see the Pods in a `Running` state:

   ```
   NAME                                     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
   adservice-76bdd69666-ckc5j               1/1     Running   0          2m58s
   cartservice-66d497c6b7-dp5jr             1/1     Running   0          2m59s
   checkoutservice-666c784bd6-4jd22         1/1     Running   0          3m1s
   currencyservice-5d5d496984-4jmd7         1/1     Running   0          2m59s
   emailservice-667457d9d6-75jcq            1/1     Running   0          3m2s
   frontend-6b8d69b9fb-wjqdg                1/1     Running   0          3m1s
   loadgenerator-665b5cd444-gwqdq           1/1     Running   0          3m
   paymentservice-68596d6dd6-bf6bv          1/1     Running   0          3m
   productcatalogservice-557d474574-888kr   1/1     Running   0          3m
   recommendationservice-69c56b74d4-7z8r5   1/1     Running   0          3m1s
   redis-cart-5f59546cdd-5jnqf              1/1     Running   0          2m58s
   shippingservice-6ccc89f8fd-v686r         1/1     Running   0          2m58s
   ```

7. Access the web frontend in a browser using the frontend's external IP.

   ```sh
   kubectl get service frontend-external | awk '{print $4}'
   ```

   Visit `http://EXTERNAL_IP` in a web browser to access your instance of Online Boutique.

8. Once you are done with it, delete the GKE cluster.

   ```sh
   gcloud container clusters delete online-boutique \
     --project=${PROJECT_ID} --region=${REGION}
   ```

   Deleting the cluster may take a few minutes.

## Use Terraform to provision a GKE cluster and deploy Online Boutique

The [`/terraform` folder](/terraform) contains instructions for using [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/intro) to replicate the steps from [**Quickstart (GKE)**](#quickstart-gke) above.

## Other deployment variations

- **Istio/Anthos Service Mesh**: [See these instructions.](/kustomize/components/service-mesh-istio/README.md)
- **non-GKE clusters (Minikube, Kind)**: see the [Development Guide](/docs/development-guide.md)

## Deploy Online Boutique variations with Kustomize

The [`/kustomize` folder](/kustomize) contains instructions for customizing the deployment of Online Boutique with different variations such as:
* integrating with [Google Cloud Operations](/kustomize/components/google-cloud-operations/)
* replacing the in-cluster Redis cache with [Google Cloud Memorystore (Redis)](/kustomize/components/memorystore), [AlloyDB](/kustomize/components/alloydb) or [Google Cloud Spanner](/kustomize/components/spanner)
* etc.

## Architecture

**Online Boutique** is composed of 11 microservices written in different
languages that talk to each other over gRPC.

[![Architecture of
microservices](/docs/img/architecture-diagram.png)](/docs/img/architecture-diagram.png)

Find **Protocol Buffers Descriptions** at the [`./protos` directory](/protos).

| Service                                              | Language      | Description                                                                                                                       |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [frontend](/src/frontend)                           | Go            | Exposes an HTTP server to serve the website. Does not require signup/login and generates session IDs for all users automatically. |
| [cartservice](/src/cartservice)                     | C#            | Stores the items in the user's shopping cart in Redis and retrieves it.                                                           |
| [productcatalogservice](/src/productcatalogservice) | Go            | Provides the list of products from a JSON file and ability to search products and get individual products.                        |
| [currencyservice](/src/currencyservice)             | Node.js       | Converts one money amount to another currency. Uses real values fetched from European Central Bank. It's the highest QPS service. |
| [paymentservice](/src/paymentservice)               | Node.js       | Charges the given credit card info (mock) with the given amount and returns a transaction ID.                                     |
| [shippingservice](/src/shippingservice)             | Go            | Gives shipping cost estimates based on the shopping cart. Ships items to the given address (mock)                                 |
| [emailservice](/src/emailservice)                   | Python        | Sends users an order confirmation email (mock).                                                                                   |
| [checkoutservice](/src/checkoutservice)             | Go            | Retrieves user cart, prepares order and orchestrates the payment, shipping and the email notification.                            |
| [recommendationservice](/src/recommendationservice) | Python        | Recommends other products based on what's given in the cart.                                                                      |
| [adservice](/src/adservice)                         | Java          | Provides text ads based on given context words.                                                                                   |
| [loadgenerator](/src/loadgenerator)                 | Python/Locust | Continuously sends requests imitating realistic user shopping flows to the frontend.                                              |

## Features

- **[Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io)/[GKE](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/):**
  The app is designed to run on Kubernetes (both locally on "Docker for
  Desktop", as well as on the cloud with GKE).
- **[gRPC](https://grpc.io):** Microservices use a high volume of gRPC calls to
  communicate to each other.
- **[Istio](https://istio.io):** Application works on Istio service mesh.
- **[Cloud Operations (Stackdriver)](https://cloud.google.com/products/operations):** Many services
  are instrumented with **Profiling** and **Tracing**. In
  addition to these, using Istio enables features like Request/Response
  **Metrics** and **Context Graph** out of the box. When it is running out of
  Google Cloud, this code path remains inactive.
- **[Skaffold](https://skaffold.dev):** Application
  is deployed to Kubernetes with a single command using Skaffold.
- **Synthetic Load Generation:** The application demo comes with a background
  job that creates realistic usage patterns on the website using
  [Locust](https://locust.io/) load generator.

## Development

See the [Development guide](/docs/development-guide.md) to learn how to run and develop this app locally.

## Demos featuring Online Boutique

- [Use Azure Redis Cache with the Online Boutique sample on AKS](https://medium.com/p/981bd98b53f8)
- [Sail Sharp, 8 tips to optimize and secure your .NET containers for Kubernetes](https://medium.com/p/c68ba253844a)
- [Deploy multi-region application with Anthos and Google cloud Spanner](https://medium.com/google-cloud/a2ea3493ed0)
- [Use Google Cloud Memorystore (Redis) with the Online Boutique sample on GKE](https://medium.com/p/82f7879a900d)
- [Use Helm to simplify the deployment of Online Boutique, with a Service Mesh, GitOps, and more!](https://medium.com/p/246119e46d53)
- [How to reduce microservices complexity with Apigee and Anthos Service Mesh](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/application-modernization/api-management-and-service-mesh-go-together)
- [gRPC health probes with Kubernetes 1.24+](https://medium.com/p/b5bd26253a4c)
- [Use Google Cloud Spanner with the Online Boutique sample](https://medium.com/p/f7248e077339)
- [Seamlessly encrypt traffic from any apps in your Mesh to Memorystore (redis)](https://medium.com/google-cloud/64b71969318d)
- [Strengthen your app's security with Anthos Service Mesh and Anthos Config Management](https://cloud.google.com/service-mesh/docs/strengthen-app-security)
- [From edge to mesh: Exposing service mesh applications through GKE Ingress](https://cloud.google.com/architecture/exposing-service-mesh-apps-through-gke-ingress)
- [Take the first step toward SRE with Cloud Operations Sandbox](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/operations/on-the-road-to-sre-with-cloud-operations-sandbox)
- [Deploying the Online Boutique sample application on Anthos Service Mesh](https://cloud.google.com/service-mesh/docs/onlineboutique-install-kpt)
- [Anthos Service Mesh Workshop: Lab Guide](https://codelabs.developers.google.com/codelabs/anthos-service-mesh-workshop)
- [KubeCon EU 2019 - Reinventing Networking: A Deep Dive into Istio's Multicluster Gateways - Steve Dake, Independent](https://youtu.be/-t2BfT59zJA?t=982)
- Google Cloud Next'18 SF
  - [Day 1 Keynote](https://youtu.be/vJ9OaAqfxo4?t=2416) showing GKE On-Prem
  - [Day 3 Keynote](https://youtu.be/JQPOPV_VH5w?t=815) showing Stackdriver
    APM (Tracing, Code Search, Profiler, Google Cloud Build)
  - [Introduction to Service Management with Istio](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wCJrdKdD6UM&feature=youtu.be&t=586)
- [Google Cloud Next'18 London – Keynote](https://youtu.be/nIq2pkNcfEI?t=3071)
  showing Stackdriver Incident Response Management

---

This is not an official Google project.
